Refactor/sso (#1150)
openfun/richie: docs/lms-connection.md

or Canvas for a seamless experience between browsing the course catalog on `richie` and following
the course itself on the LMS.

In order to connect `richie` with a LMS, there is an API bridge
to synchronize course information and enrollments.

### API bridge

The `APIHandler` utility acts as a proxy that routes queries to the correct LMS backend API,
based on a regex match on the URL of the course.

```python
LMS_BACKENDS=[
    {
        "BACKEND": "richie.apps.courses.lms.edx.TokenEdXLMSBackend",
        "SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example2.org.*",
        "JS_SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example2.org.*",
        "BASE_URL": "https://www.lms-example2.org",
        "JS_COURSE_REGEX": r"^.*/course/(?<course_id>[0-9]*)$",
    },
]
```

For information about how to generate an API access on your OpenEdx instance, refer to the
documentation.

## Connecting Richie and OpenEdx over TLS

#### Purpose

About the default configuration, if you check `LMS_BACKEND` settings in `env.d/development` you will
see that we use `base.BaseLMSBackend` as `LMS_BACKEND`.

> In fact, this base backend use session storage to fake enrollment to course runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact, this base backend uses session storage to fake enrollment to course runs.
```

> May be are you asking why? Because, to make Create/Update/Delete requests from an external domain,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maybe are you asking why? Because, to make Create/Update/Delete requests from an external domain,
```

OpenEdx requires the use of a CORS CSRF Cookie. This cookie is flagged as secure, that means we are
not able to use it without a SSL connection.

So if you need to use the OpenEdx API to Create, Update or Delete data from Richie, you have to
enable SSL on Richie and OpenEdx on your development environment. So we need a little bit more 

> configuration. Below, we explain how to serve OpenEDX and Richie over SSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration. Below, we explain how to serve OpenEdX and Richie over SSL.
```

#### Run OpenEDX and Richie on the same domain

Richie and OpenEDX must be on the same domain to work properly (Cookie security policy blocks
secure cookie sharing on localhost) To do that you have to edit your hosts file 
(_.e.g_ `/etc/hosts` on a \*NIX system) to alias a domain `local.dev` with
two subdomains `richie` and `edx` to localhost:

```
# /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1 richie.local.dev
127.0.0.1 edx.local.dev
```

Once this has been done, the OpenEdx app should respond on http://edx.local.dev:8073
and Richie should respond on http://richie.local.dev:8070 and should be able
to make CORS XHR requests.

#### Enable TLS

> If you want to develop with OpenEDX as `LMS_BACKEND` of Richie, you need to enable TLS for your
> development servers. Both Richie and OpenEdx use Nginx as reverse proxy that ease the SSL setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to develop with OpenEdX as `LMS_BACKEND` of Richie, you need to enable TLS for your
development servers. Both Richie and OpenEdX use Nginx as reverse proxy that ease the SSL setup.
```

##### 1. Install mkcert ans its Certificate Authority

First you will need to install mkcert and its Certificate Authority.
[mkcert](https://mkcert.org/) is a little util to ease local certificate generation.

###### a. Install `mkcert` on your local machine

- [Read the doc](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert)
- Linux users who do not want to use linuxbrew : [read this article](https://www.prado.lt/how-to-create-locally-trusted-ssl-certificates-in-local-development-environment-on-linux-with-mkcert).

###### b. Install Mkcert Certificate Authority

`mkcert -install`

> If you do not want to use mkcert, you can generate [CA and certificate with openssl](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-get-https-working-on-your-local-development-environment-in-5-minutes-7af615770eec/).
> You will have to put your certificate and its key in `docker/files/etc/nginx/ssl` directory
> and named them `richie.local.dev.pem` and `richie.local.dev.key`.

##### 2. On Richie

To setup SSL conf with mkcert, just run:
`bin/setup-ssl`

> If you do not want to use mkcert, read instructions above to generate Richie certificate then
> run `bin/setup-ssl --no-cert` instead.

##### 3. On OpenEDX

> In the same way, about OpenEdx, you also have to update the Nginx configuration to enable SSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the same way, about OpenEdX, you also have to update the Nginx configuration to enable SSL.
```

and ditto several times more in this file ;-)

    {
        "BACKEND": "richie.apps.courses.lms.edx.TokenEdXLMSBackend",
        "SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example1.org.*",
        "JS_SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example1.org.*",
        "BASE_URL": "https://www.lms-example1.org",
        "JS_COURSE_REGEX": r"^.*/courses/(?<course_id>.*)/info$",
    },
    {
        "BACKEND": "richie.apps.courses.lms.edx.TokenEdXLMSBackend",
        "SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example2.org.*",
        "JS_SELECTOR_REGEX": r".*lms-example2.org.*",
        "BASE_URL": "https://www.lms-example2.org",

>         "JS_COURSE_REGEX": r"^.*/course/(?<course_id>[0-9]*)$",

Reviewer: why JS_* ? You could continue calling them COURSE_REGEX and SELECTOR_REGEX and pass them to javascript?

Author: Because I need a SELECTOR_REGEXP for LMS_Handler in python code. So I prefixed all regexp used in JS with JS_ to distinguish them.

Reviewer: But they have the same value... Could they ever be different?

Author: Nope this is not the same value. There is a little difference about how to declare group.
Python syntax is `?P<group_name>` and in JS syntax is `?<group_name>`
